---
layout: post
title: Week 2 - Project 1 Engage
---

This week of class can almost exclusively be summed up in two words: "Collatz
Conjecture." We spent the entirety of 3 lectures discussing our first project.
Now whether this is an amazing first full week or a lack luster one is all a
matter of perspective.

On one hand, I had spent an hour or two reading over the assignment the night it
was posted, and another hour or two getting started working on it the next morning.
This means that the vast majority of these last three lectures, while not useless,
were difficult to give 100% of my attention to. 

On the other hand, this class (or what I can make of it from this first project)
is sure to be rigorous, and it is incredibly helpful to spend the whole first week
easing into all of the new tools that we will be using. When we first started,
I was anxious about having to learn about Gcov and Google Test, and starting this
project has introduced Travis-CI, Github's issue trackers, and interesting,
new ways to use Makefiles. The help that Professor Downing has provided this first
week with these tools is surely invaluable.

Aside from the lecture, I have spent the vast majority of my week trucking through
project 1, devoting at least 2 hours a day to it. The project itself is pretty
trivial, but it acts as a good medium to get comfortable with the new development
tools. One thing I have learned this week while writing code is the significance
of testing, profiling, and recording analytics. One part of our assignment
requires us to build a simple cache to speed up our collatz-solver, and I spent the better
part of 2 hours implementing a special stack to help boost my cache's performance.
Had I not timed and profiled the solver, I might have been satisified that it
still passed the required tests, but to my horror, this new implementation
slowed down my solver by roughly 50%. My lesson-of-the-day was to never undervalue
timed and recorded tests.

# Tip of the Week #

For those interested in frontend web development and in need of a simple and
effective data-binding tool, I recommend KnockoutJS. Knockout is very easy to
get familiar with and doesn't have many of the esoteric keywords and patterns
that other frontend tools, like Angular, have. Its data-binding system is
bi-directional, so you can build html elements that are constantly bound to a
variable in your Javascript, making it easy to manipulate your view or model
and update the other appropriately. KnockoutJS also has easy to follow tutorials
on their website to help beginners get up and running fast!