---
layout: post
title: Project One, Project Done
---

CS371P's first project, Collatz, was an interesting one.

I started Collatz the first day it was assigned. I made an effort to work a
minimum of two hours a day, asking questions on piazza, and piece by piece, I chipped
away at the project requirements. By the fourth day, I had pretty much finished the
assignment, but I found myself getting tripped up by the details of the assignment.

Initially, I thought I had built a robust suite of acceptance tests. I had tests
backwards and forwards for all of the edge cases I could think of. I spent a good
chunk of time building those tests, but like a lot of people I had not considered
that my tests might overflow. Luckily, two classmates had taken the time to
catalog which tests overflowed, so correcting the tests only required me to write
a simple auxiliary program to generate 100 random tests that did not include
those overflow numbers.

As well, Professor Downing's specification for the files in our private code repos
were not to be taken lightly. Extraneous files I had written to test auxillary
functions or to test the performance of my Collatz code had to be removed per
Professor Downing's request. To be honest, I don't totally understand why they
had to be removed, and it was a little frustrating that the project specification
did not clearly state that extra files were not allowed in our private repos. 
The change to remove the extraneous files wasn't much effort, but it was a bit
of a nuisance. I will take this as a lesson of some of the mildly irritating
bureaucracy that I am sure to face in industry.

# Tip of the Week #

This week's tip isn't a tool or an article, but more of an often-parroted piece
of advice I finally took myself. All UTCS students should find every opportunity
they can to compete with their code in someway, shape, or form. UT holds plenty
of these types of events: ACM Competitive Programming competitions, HackTX,
Gamejams, and the UMad showcase. This weekend I formed a team and competed in
the UT Fall 2015 Gamejam. It was an amazing experience, and I actually managed
to leave with a prize, but one of the most reward parts of it was trying to build
something impressive in a very limited time against game developers and designers
much more experienced than me. I learned more skills under pressure during that
competition than I had trying to tackle hobbyist game development in the past 2
months. Those types of experiences are definitely something every UTCS student
should be a part of.