---
layout: post
title: Approaching the Test
---

Caught up in the hubbub of the Voting project, Career Fair, and HackTX, I neglected
to check the class calendar this week. This led to a rude awakening when Professor
Downing mentioned that our first test was fast approaching. For some reason,
this class's tests have me more nervous than I think they should. I have kept
up with all of the reading at this point, attended all of the lectures, and done
fairly well on the in-class quizzes, but I still feel particularly unprepared.
I think my anxiety stems from not knowing the format of the class's exams. Will
there be coding? Will it all be about design? Will I need to know the name of
someone who posited that ideas in some languages have no equivalent in other
languages? Will I have to know all of that and more? The mystery of this test
is terrifying.

# Tip of the Week

This week, I made a bit of a fool out of myself in an interview. My time to find
a summer internship is constrained by the fact that I already have an offer with Google,
who's deadline is fast approaching, and in an effort to get through Quora's process as
quickly as possible, I scheduled the interview much sooner than I was prepared for.
I got an email this past Tuesday that I had an interview and made the poor decision to
schedule the interview for this past Wednesday. As I found out, this was not nearly
enough time to prepare for an interview, and interviewing skills can be forgotten.
My solutions to my techincal problems were hacky and not well thought out,
circumventing simple algorithms because I had not used a particular data structure
in a long time. Alas, I will not be joining Quora this summer, so my tip of the
week is to always give yourself ample time to prepare for your interviews.
Even if you've been through plenty and consider yourself comfortable with data
structures and algorithms, you should never undervalue the significance of
practicing technical questions.