---
layout: post
title: VIMproving
---

This week marks the end of the Allocator project. While the project was no walk in the park, it was much easier than some of our previous projects had been. In my opinion this was because there was no need to generate a suite of acceptance tests (which in my experience would take me at least an hour or so to do) or to test our code against any kind of online judge. Since I found the project on the easier side, I wanted to take it as an opportunity to improve some other aspect of my software engineering skillset. I chose to improve my comfort level in Vim. My partner was fairly comfortable in Vim so I was lucky enough to be working alongside someone who could quickly offer me help whenever I stumbled trying to remember the various motion keys and the variety of other weird vim quirks. In the end the project turned out really well and I believe I managed to become a more comfortable vim user in the process.


### Tip of the Week ###

For anyone interested in getting started using Vim or just becoming more comfortable with Vim, I found a number of really wonderful teaching tools while I was trying to learn. First off, there is vimtutor. Essentially vim tutor is just a plain text file with some instructions and simple exercises for various vim commands but for a first time Vim user I could definitely see it being very helpful. For those of you like me who have trouble learning by reading there is an online game called [VIM Adventures](http://vim-adventures.com) that I found that I enjoyed. The game is pretty rudimentary and most of it is stuck behind a paywall, but if you have 15 minutes to kill and want to learn a little Vim, this resource can be helpful. Finally, for any first time Vim users [this article](http://www.viemu.com/a-why-vi-vim.html) is worth reading and addresses some of the common pitfalls that first time Vim users make.
