---
layout: post
title: Object of My Frustration
---

I pretty much forgot that I was in an Object Oriented Programming
course. For four weeks, the term object had scarcely been mentioned at all during
lecture. This was especially strange because at this point we had read through
6 chapters of a book that talked on and on about class responsibilities, methods,
encapsulation, and designing object-oriented systems, but there was absolutely no
discussion of these readings in class. It was almost like I had enrolled in two
separate classes: "Object Oriented Independent Study" and "Software Development
in C++".

Now the class has seemed to do a bit of a 180, as our current project is nothing
but Object Oriented design. Most of the time that my partner and I spend working
on this project has us huddled around pieces of notebook paper trying to sketch
out the different classes of agents and how these agents should act within this
voting simulation. Thinking so much on the design of a system rather than its implementation (i.e. what
responsibilities should this object rather than what kind of pre-existing data
structure will best accomplish this task) is such a radically different thought process for me, and I am finding it a bit
difficult. Most of my attempts to design this system have resulted in far too much coupling between independent classes of
agents. When I write down the problem in plain english it feels like there
is a much simpler, less coupled way of defining this system, but I can't manage
to translate it to code. I feel like design has always been one of my weaker
skills, and I wonder what I can do to improve.

In light of my poor design skills, I would like to put forth a minor grievance
with this class. Professor Downing presents no solutions to any of the projects
that we work on. This isn't inherently a bad thing. It teaches us that there are
many correct answers to simple problems and many more correct answers to complex
ones. I feel like by not providing a solution, people like me who are trying
to improve have no example of what they could have done better. Perhaps a
compromise between no solution and full solution would be for Professor Downing
and the TA's to highlight a couple of student's designs in each project as an
example of something that they feel captures the essence of good software
development. It would give the designer a confidence boost and well deserved kudos,
and it would give students like me more to learn from. 

# Tip of the Week

For aspiring web developers who have sat down and wanted a brief introduction to
what NodeJS is, last week I found a really amazing resource. [Learnyounode](https://www.npmjs.com/package/learnyounode)
is a set of really straight forward exercises that don't take more than a few hours
and explain the really basics of NodeJS. Having finished it recently, I don't
feel like I could sit down and crank out an entire server-side web tool, but I
feel much more equipped to ask for help and learn elsewhere.