---
layout: post
title: Final Week
---

This Thursday marked the end of my time in Professor Downing's Object Oriented Programming course, which means this will be my last blog post for this class. There's a part of me that is excited to not have to spend any more Saturdays collecting my thoughts on Object Oriented Programming, but at the same time I feel like this exercise in writing has been good for me. It has given me practice reflecting on my efforts in school and focusing my thoughts into something that isn't a half-baked rant or disjointed bullet points. I also had the experience of sharing my writing with others to peer review my grammar and make sure my writing style made my talking points clear and understandable. I cannot say for sure whether I will want to or have any reason to continue writing about my journey as a software developer, but this class has at least made it an idea worth exploring.
 
Without further ado, I would like to reflect on this past week. Well, really this will be a reflection of the test I just took yesterday since that has been the focus of my entire week. The first test in the class went OK for me, but definitely not as well as I would have liked. I managed a high B, and after leaving confident in at least an A, I was a bit shaken. Despite the shock, I made the mistake of never inquiring about why I got that grade on the test. I never went to office hours or even so much as sent out an email, and I don't really have an idea why. I think I had some misguided idea that the tests would be returned to us in lecture.
 
Nevertheless, when I began studying for this test I took it more seriously. I studied the list of concepts Professor Downing posted on Piazza, I reviewed all of our in-class quizzes, and I reviewed all of the in-class code examples. This widespread study strategy played out in my favor since many of the test problems came directly from work we've done in class. That being said, I still don't feel as confident as I would have liked to about this test. The class's tendencies to introduce concepts through naive, half-correct examples makes me anxious that the data structures that I wrote on the test were not the 100% correct ones but one of the naive, early structures with a fatal flaw that I must have forgotten.
 
With the test behind me, it is also important to reflect on the class as a whole. There were a lot of things I liked about the class. It took a middle ground between the programming slog of writing low level code to do simple tasks and the magic realm of writing totally 100% abstracted code that seems more about programmer convenience than implementing a well thought-out solution. Our class seemed to approach abstraction as a tool to make writing performant code easier. For example, the last lecture we had discussed a third implementation of our generic handle class intended to alleviate the load of cloning a bunch of objects unnecessarily by using copy-on-write mechanics.
 
Speaking of, handle classes were one of the many new strategies that I learned in this course. One of the more basic but interesting strategies was composition. Despite it's simplicity I had never thought of using composition as a means of code reuse, and during the Darwin project and our lecture over stacks I got to see how flexible and powerful composition can be in an object-oriented system.
 
I do wish the class had explored a little more of object-oriented programming. Considering UT's introductory programming courses cover inheritance and interfaces, it would have been nice replace the lectures covering those topics with how Object Oriented Programming fits into other design patterns. I've heard of design patterns like the observer pattern and the entity-component system and it would have been nice to see how the object-oriented paradigm fit into these patterns or explore why it didn't.
 
### TIP OF THE WEEK
 
It's always important to recognize that your successes are the collaborative effort of yourself and everyone who has supported you. Hour of Code is an event designed to expose people to programming that otherwise might have never considered it a career choice. Signs up are going on [right now](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hlcK2mKdlhhn6BNrU4r8qw671jo5W4AK-32WkqZP4aU/edit) for Austin area schools and this is an excellent way to support and inspire a potential programmer.

