---
layout: post
title: Week 1 - First Impressions
---

The first week of my Object Oriented Programming class has come to a close, and,
for the most part, the entire class is still a mystery to me. I understand the
requirements of the class from having read the syllabus, but having been assigned
no actual work, I still lack an understanding of how this class will be a part
of my life. That being said, I have observed a few interesting things.

To parrot what other UTCS students have told me in the past, Professor Downing
is very detailed. As an example, the last 7 or so minutes of the previous
lecture was used to discuss pre-increment vs post-increment operators. While this
topic can usually be summed up into a sentence or two, Professor Downing discussed
it with us long past the point that I initially would have thought
necessary, yet I found myself thinking about the operators in a new way. Professor
Downing's style of teaching lends itself to a level of detail that I believe will
lead me to be a programmer with conscious control over of every piece of my programs.
While I'm sure I will be docked many points in this class
for programming discretions that I would deem trivial, I will no doubt become a
better software engineer for it.

Another aspect of this class that Professor Downing has made very clear is that
it will be highly collaborative. In our first lecture, to emphasize the
importance of networking we were assigned to meet at least two new students and
exchange contact info. In our second lecture, we had to pair up and discuss where
an example test suite failed. Where some lecturers would simply give us explanations,
Professor Downing gave us an exercise in collaboration. To be entirely frank,
this much collaboration makes me anxious, but it is very clear how important
teamwork and communication skills are for a software developer.

Professor Downing has also introduced me to a whole new suite of software development
tools, and I find them all a little intimidating. Tools I had heard of but never
even thought to use, like a coverage analyzer and a profiler, are more than likely
going to be used on all of our assignments, and the learning curve looks steep.
That being said, I know how useful these tools are, so I am excited to finally
get some exposure outside of the simple testing suites I've used in the past.

## Weekly Tip ##

I have recently started using Cloud9 IDE, and if you have not, I
seriously encourage you to do so. I have mainly used it to build proof of concept
demos for web applications I am developing, and so far it has
been a pleasure to use. The free service equips you with a server-IDE combination
with 1GB of free storage and 512 MB of RAM, which is more than enough to build
most of the projects I would think of building. One of the coolest features is
that since you are pretty much given a remote machine to work on, Windows users
don't have to worry about finding complex ways to work with services that Unix
users can request with a simple package manager. The service also has really great
simple git integration! Initializing a workspace tied to a git repository is as
simple as providing a clone-url, and any updates can be done from the workspace's
terminal like a normal installation of git. Cloud9 also comes with a whole host
of project templates, so if you know from the get-go that you are building a
nodejs project or a ruby-on-rails project, you can get up and running even faster.
