---
layout: post
title: Project 4 - Darwin
---

This week in class marked the beginning of a new project, the **Darwin** project. The project is a glorified excuse to practice object oriented design, and it is a welcome one. Not too long ago, I lamented the fact that while I enjoy this class, it felt more like a guide to the wonders of C++ than a guide to the wonders of object oriented programming. We’ve read many articles on object oriented design, but never really had to put it into practice. This project is finally giving the class the opportunity to explore the advantages of an object oriented design. It is also quickly making it apparent why so many programmers who plan to write an object oriented system inevitably warp their design to a simpler, more procedural design. While the reusability, modularity, and stability of object oriented programming is appealing, the object oriented paradigm of passing messages between actors/objects in a simulation is unintuitive at the least. Retrieving simple data is prohibited, and if the internal state of an actor is needed to perform some function, then it becomes the responsibility of that actor to perform the function. Unfortunately, this breaks down quickly when the internal state of multiple actors is needed to perform a single action. What actor performs what? What messages should be passed around in what order to accomplish a task? What exactly does a message entail? Obviously since I’m knee-deep in this project, I don’t quite have an answer to most of these questions, but I am excited for the chance to practice these skills and discover some reasonable answers.

### Tip of the Week

For anyone recently exploring Vim, like myself, I’ve discovered a pretty neat option that can be set in Vim. The Vim text editor doesn’t come with line numbers enabled by default, but by entering in “:set number” you can turn on the line numbers. Something less known and perhaps more useful is another option, “:set relative number”. This option will number the lines from the current cursor position, e.g. the line 2 lines above the cursor is line 2, and the line 4 lines below the cursor is labelled line 4. While at first this seems unhelpful or confusing, it is super convenient when trying to figure out the correct motion for a command. For example, if you want to delete a section of lines you can use the command “dXd” where X is the line number specified by the relative numbering. I have found that it speeds up my Vim usage by a significant amount, and I believe it can help yours too.
