---
layout: post
title: Relax
---

Disclaimer: I've got absolutely nothing interesting to say about Programming or
Computer Science this week. There's nothing I did in that area worth
reporting on, and I'd rather not force it.

### What did you do this past week? ###

This past week we began work on the last phase of the project. I feel like we've
been making steady progress, and I'm making an active effort not to
constantly worry about all that we have left to do.

As I said last week, I wanted to take this week to learn to relax. That doesn't
mean I haven't been working hard, but I have been preventing myself from
overworking. On the advice of a counselor, I've even started doing daily
meditation using an app called Headspace. 

### What will you do next week? ###

Next week, we will start jotting down our critiques and reflections of
ours and "The SWE Awakens"'s website. I want these criticisms to be honest and
constructive, but I also want to keep in mind the constraints and context of
this project to avoid nitpicking little details.

Next week, I also want to resume my regular exercise schedule since I put it on
hold when I was sick. This means attending my Social Dance and
Weight Training classes again. I'd also like to get back in the habit of
running regularly. After slacking off on my running regimen, I was
ill-prepared and missed my opportunity to run my first 10K, but I'm hopeful
that I can still achieve that goal before the end of the year.

### What's my experience of the class? ###

To be perfectly honest, I barely went to class last week. I kept running into 
time conflicts with other school projects and personal appointments. This is no
excuse and I plan to get back to class this upcoming week.

### Tip(Thought?)-of-the-week ###

Not too long ago, we were supposed to read an
[article](https://www.joelonsoftware.com/2000/08/09/the-joel-test-12-steps-to-better-code/)
by Joel Spolsky about what to look for in potential employers. One of the
highlights for me in this article was the mention of private offices for
developers. This felt very strange to me because my previous two internships,
both with large, respectable companies, had featured open office floor plans,
and both times this was pitched to me as the wave of the future. "With open
office floor plans, communication and collaboration is so much easier" they'd
say, and as a nervous intern the ability to easily ask people questions was
well-appreciated. I was curious if this had been a recent shift or if there was
some ebb and flow between the two office styles, so I took to Google. I was
surprised to see that numerous people had all weighed in on the topic, and they
were ALL for private offices. In fact, the only way I could find an article that
spoke positively about open office floor plans was to search specifically for
"the benefits of open office floor plans" and even then I was getting negatively
leaning pro-con-list articles. In all fairness, it seemed like a number of the
anti-open-office articles referenced the Joel Spolsky article, so the topic may
be a bit of an echo chamber at this point. Nonetheless the discovery that open
office floor plans are uncool now has me wondering if I'd be more
productive in a closed office than in the GDC labs. Or perhaps this is just a
"the grass is always greener" scenario.

Here are some of the articles that I ran across when I was looking opinions on
the open office idea.

* [Programmers Hate Open Floor Plans](https://qz.com/806583/programmers-hate-open-floor-plans/)
* [Offices for All!](https://www.fastcompany.com/3019758/offices-for-all-why-open-office-layouts-are-bad-for-employees-bosses-and-productivity)
* [Why We Still Believe in Private Offices](https://stackoverflow.blog/2015/01/16/why-we-still-believe-in-private-offices/)
* [Why the Open Concept Office Trend Needs to Die](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jmaureenhenderson/2014/12/16/why-the-open-concept-office-trend-needs-to-die/#6c5cd51b603a)

