---
layout: post
title: Search & Time Management
---

### What did you do this past week? ###

I dedicated this past week to finishing up our search functionality. Search
functionality took some time but was not too difficult. We ended up rolling
our own simple solution. Although it might not stack up to other libraries, we
learned a lot from implementing it ourselves. We chose to do this because the
plug-n-play solutions we'd seen clashed with our current design. The solution
we designed resembles the high-level designs of the other libraries. First, we
generate an index file for each model that maps from search terms to model
instances.
Next, we reference that index whenever we need to search using a set of terms.
Finally, we contextualize our results using a pretty simple find-and-replace
regex.

I also tried to use this past week to work on my time management skills. This
week, my schedule got tied up with non-academic appointments. This stressed me
out because I wouldn't have enough time to give 100% effort to all my classes.
Normally when this happens, I power through it by sacrificing my sleep and my
personal health. This time I tried something a bit different. I tried to find
time by forcing myself to put 80% of my effort into some of my less important
tasks. Sometimes this meant leaving class a bit early. Sometimes it meant
postponing a reading assignment. I had to acknowledge my priorities and make
peace with letting some things slip. In the end, I'm mostly happy with the
choices I made. They helped me make it through this week, but I'm definitely
cautious of making them a habit.

### What will you do next week? ###

Next week, I will start preparing for the final Software Engineering test and
our in-class presentation. I'm comfortable speaking in front of an audience,
so I'm not worried about the presentation. I am a little worried about what
might be on the final test. I'll need to schedule some serious time to review
the SQL and relational algebra material.

### What's my experience of the class? ###

Lately, the lectures have felt pretty domain specific. It doesn't feel like we
are discussing general software engineering problems. Last week, we covered
the dangers of how overriding and overloading interact in Java. It was an
interesting case study on how language features can interact in unexpected ways,
but I didn't understand what I was supposed to take away from it.
Perhaps the takeaway is
that [extends is evil](http://www.javaworld.com/article/2073649/core-java/why-extends-is-evil.html).

### Tip-of-the-week? ###

Sometimes my understanding of data structures and algorithms gets a little
rusty. These fundamentals help programmers create great software, so it's
important to keep them sharp. It's also necessary if you are interviewing for
software engineering positions. 

Recently, I found out that HackerRank has [a set of problems](https://www.hackerrank.com/domains/tutorials/cracking-the-coding-interview) based on Gayle
Laakmann Mcdowell's "[Cracking the Coding](https://www.amazon.com/Cracking-Coding-Interview-Programming-Questions/dp/0984782850/ref=dp_ob_title_bk)".

Going over some of these problems in my free time has helped me re-solidify these
concepts. If you're feeling rusty I highly recommend it. It's important
to remember some of the less-discussed data structures, like heaps and tries.
