---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

### What did you do this past week? ###

This past week was pretty relaxed. I have already taken Professor Downing's
 Object-oriented Programming course which (at least at the beginning) has a 
 similar structure, so I feel like I know what to expect out of the semester.
 I have begun working through the Extreme Programming and Javascript readings,
 and I made sure to play around with some of the new tools that we will be using
 in this class such as Docker.

### What's in your way? ###

The only thing in my way this week is the ramp up back into school. I need to
make sure that I establish good habits from the very beginning of staying organized,
starting work early, and making time for my own personal projects. So far I feel like,
I am handling thi well despite every professor trying to tell me that their class
is intensive and that I should prepare myself for frustration.

### What will you do next week? ###

Next week the Collatz project will begin. I will use this as an opportunity to ensure
that I have my development environment and tools for this class all figured out, since
the project itself isn't difficult.

### What's my experience of the class? ###

So far I'm having a very relaxed, but cautious experience in the class. The lectures for the class
are pleasant and the workload so far is light, but we are still very early in the year
and the impending writing assignments will surely throw me for a loop. 

### Tip-of-the-week? ###

I am a Vim user and I think it would be helpful to share the plugins that I use with my vim setup
to make it less clunky.

* [Lightline](https://github.com/itchyny/lightline.vim) - this is a helpful tool that adds a color bar to the bottom of your vim editor to gives you information about what editor mode your in, where you are on the screen, what file you are using, etc.

* [Rainbow Parentheses](https://github.com/kien/rainbow_parentheses.vim) - This makes it so that matching braces, parentheses, and brackets share the same color which can help make nested parens look much more readable.

* [Syntastic](https://github.com/vim-syntastic/syntastic) -  A helpful syntax checker that has saved me more than a few times when writing C++

* [Vim Plug](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug) - A plugin manager for vim. There are many plugin managers out there like Pathogen but this is the one I use and it gets the job done.

* [Tmux](https://tmux.github.io/) - Last but not least, Tmux. Tmux is a terminal multiplexer which is a fancy way of saying that it helps you navigate and use your terminal/console as a set of windows and panes as opposed to one static command line. This isn't a vim plugin, but I find it absolutely essentially to doing work in the terminal.

If you'd like to see any other vim/terminal config tools that I use you can checkout my dotfiles github repo for all of the juicy details (https://github.com/scottnm/dotfiles)
