---
layout: post
title: Final
---

I pretty much covered my thoughts on this class in my last blog post, so I'm
just going to clean up what I said there.

The class has been swell. The lectures are interactive, the projects were fun,
and I got the opportunity to work in a really great team atmosphere. My biggest
issue with the current class is that there is some material
that I feel should be cut in favor of more interesting material. Here are some
of the topics that I felt were unnecessary.

* XML: We never used XML. The software engineering world barely seems to use XML.
 The topic just doesn't feel useful enough to dedicate an entire lecture to. It
 might be worth talking about when we cover JSON, but no more than a bullet point.

* Overriding & Overloading Behavior: Object-oriented programming is an important
 practice to understand given how prevalent it is in the software engineering
 world. That being said, this class isn't about object-oriented programming.
 Most of the overriding & overloading lecture material feels more like
 Java trivia than anything that will help us solve problems better.

As well, the design patterns lectures need some improvement. I think it's
important to expose students to different design patterns, but I think it should
be done with less trivial examples. For example, the way the Visitor Pattern was
shown to us, made it seem like a really roundabout way of accomplishing
something much simpler. I think it'd be helpful to show an example where each of
patterns clearly outshines other ways of solving a problem.

